ADO ABOUT NOTHING PERSONAE DON of Arragon. DON bastard brother. young lord of Florence. young lord of Padua. of Messina. brother. on Don Pedro. followers of Don John. FRIAR FRANCIS: constable. headborough. Sexton. Boy. to Leonato. to Leonato. gentlewomen attending on Hero. Watch, Attendants, &c. (Lord:) Watchman:) Watchman:) ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT I SCENE LEONATO'S house. LEONATO, HERO, and BEATRICE, with a learn in this letter that Don Peter of Arragon this night to Messina. is very near by this: he was not three leagues off I left him. many gentlemen have you lost in this action? few of any sort, and none of name. victory is twice itself when the achiever brings full numbers. I find here that Don Peter hath much honour on a young Florentine called Claudio. deserved on his part and equally remembered by Pedro: he hath borne himself beyond the of his age, doing, in the figure of a lamb, feats of a lion: he hath indeed better expectation than you must expect of me to you how. hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much of it. have already delivered him letters, and there much joy in him; even so much that joy could show itself modest enough without a badge of he break out into tears? great measure. kind overflow of kindness: there are no faces than those that are so washed. How much is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping! pray you, is Signior Mountanto returned from the or no? know none of that name, lady: there was none such the army of any sort. is he that you ask for, niece? cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua. he's returned; and as pleasant as ever he was. set up his bills here in Messina and challenged at the flight; and my uncle's fool, reading challenge, subscribed for Cupid, and challenged at the bird-bolt. I pray you, how many hath he and eaten in these wars? But how many hath killed? for indeed I promised to eat all of his killing. niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much; he'll be meet with you, I doubt it not. hath done good service, lady, in these wars. had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it: is a very valiant trencherman; he hath an stomach. a good soldier too, lady. a good soldier to a lady: but what is he to a lord? lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuffed with all virtues. is so, indeed; he is no less than a stuffed man: for the stuffing,--well, we are all mortal. must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her: never meet but there's a skirmish of wit them. he gets nothing by that. In our last four of his five wits went halting off, and is the whole man governed with one: so that if have wit enough to keep himself warm, let him it for a difference between himself and his for it is all the wealth that he hath left, be known a reasonable creature. Who is his now? He hath every month a new sworn brother. possible? easily possible: he wears his faith but as fashion of his hat; it ever changes with the block. see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books. an he were, I would burn my study. But, I pray who is his companion? Is there no young now that will make a voyage with him to the devil? is most in the company of the right noble Claudio. Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease: he sooner caught than the pestilence, and the taker presently mad. God help the noble Claudio! if have caught the Benedick, it will cost him a pound ere a' be cured. will hold friends with you, lady. good friend. will never run mad, niece. not till a hot January. Pedro is approached. DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, BALTHASAR] DON Signior Leonato, you are come to meet your the fashion of the world is to avoid and you encounter it. came trouble to my house in the likeness of grace: for trouble being gone, comfort should but when you depart from me, sorrow abides happiness takes his leave. DON embrace your charge too willingly. I think this your daughter. mother hath many times told me so. you in doubt, sir, that you asked her? Benedick, no; for then were you a child. DON have it full, Benedick: we may guess by this you are, being a man. Truly, the lady fathers Be happy, lady; for you are like an father. Signior Leonato be her father, she would not his head on her shoulders for all Messina, as him as she is. wonder that you will still be talking, Signior nobody marks you. my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living? it possible disdain should die while she hath meet food to feed it as Signior Benedick? itself must convert to disdain, if you come her presence. is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I loved of all ladies, only you excepted: and I I could find in my heart that I had not a hard for, truly, I love none. dear happiness to women: they would else have troubled with a pernicious suitor. I thank God my cold blood, I am of your humour for that: I rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man he loves me. keep your ladyship still in that mind! so some or other shall 'scape a predestinate face. could not make it worse, an 'twere such face as yours were. you are a rare parrot-teacher. bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours. would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and good a continuer. But keep your way, i' God's I have done. always end with a jade's trick: I know you of old. DON is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath you all. I tell him we shall stay here at least a month; and he heartily prays some may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no but prays from his heart. you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn. DON JOHN] me bid you welcome, my lord: being reconciled to prince your brother, I owe you all duty. DON thank you: I am not of many words, but I thank it your grace lead on? DON hand, Leonato; we will go together. all except BENEDICK and CLAUDIO] didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato? noted her not; but I looked on her. she not a modest young lady? you question me, as an honest man should do, for simple true judgment; or would you have me speak my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex? I pray thee speak in sober judgment. i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high too brown for a fair praise and too little a great praise: only this commendation I can her, that were she other than she is, she unhandsome; and being no other but as she is, I not like her. thinkest I am in sport: I pray thee tell me how thou likest her. you buy her, that you inquire after her? the world buy such a jewel? and a case to put it into. But speak you this a sad brow? or do you play the flouting Jack, tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan a carpenter? Come, in what key shall a man take to go in the song? mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I on. can see yet without spectacles and I see no such there's her cousin, an she were not with a fury, exceeds her as much in beauty the first of May doth the last of December. But I you have no intent to turn husband, have you? would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the if Hero would be my wife. come to this? In faith, hath not the world man but he will wear his cap with suspicion? I never see a bachelor of three-score again? to, i' faith; an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away Look Don Pedro is returned to seek you. DON PEDRO] DON secret hath held you here, that you followed to Leonato's? would your grace would constrain me to tell. DON charge thee on thy allegiance. hear, Count Claudio: I can be secret as a dumb I would have you think so; but, on my mark you this, on my allegiance. He is love. With who? now that is your grace's part. how short his answer is;--With Hero, Leonato's daughter. this were so, so were it uttered. the old tale, my lord: 'it is not so, nor not so, but, indeed, God forbid it should be my passion change not shortly, God forbid it be otherwise. DON if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy. speak this to fetch me in, my lord. DON my troth, I speak my thought. in faith, my lord, I spoke mine. by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine. I love her, I feel. DON she is worthy, I know. I neither feel how she should be loved nor how she should be worthy, is the opinion that cannot melt out of me: I will die in it at the stake. DON wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite beauty. never could maintain his part but in the force his will. a woman conceived me, I thank her; that she me up, I likewise give her most humble but that I will have a recheat winded in my or hang my bugle in an invisible baldrick, women shall pardon me. Because I will not do the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself the to trust none; and the fine is, for the which may go the finer, I will live a bachelor. DON shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love. anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord, with love: prove that ever I lose more blood love than I will get again with drinking, pick mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen and hang me at the door of a brothel-house for the sign of Cupid. DON if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou prove a notable argument. I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot me; and he that hits me, let him be clapped on shoulder, and called Adam. DON as time shall try: 'In time the savage bull bear the yoke.' savage bull may; but if ever the sensible bear it, pluck off the bull's horns and set in my forehead: and let me be vilely painted, in such great letters as they write 'Here is horse to hire,' let them signify under my sign you may see Benedick the married man.' this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad. DON if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in thou wilt quake for this shortly. look for an earthquake too, then. DON you temporize with the hours. In the good Signior Benedick, repair to commend me to him and tell him I will fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made preparation. have almost matter enough in me for such an and so I commit you-- the tuition of God: From my house, if I had it,-- DON sixth of July: Your loving friend, Benedick. mock not, mock not. The body of your is sometime guarded with fragments, and guards are but slightly basted on neither: ere flout old ends any further, examine your and so I leave you. liege, your highness now may do me good. DON love is thine to teach: teach it but how, thou shalt see how apt it is to learn hard lesson that may do thee good. Leonato any son, my lord? DON child but Hero; she's his only heir. thou affect her, Claudio? my lord, you went onward on this ended action, look'd upon her with a soldier's eye, liked, but had a rougher task in hand to drive liking to the name of love: now I am return'd and that war-thoughts left their places vacant, in their rooms thronging soft and delicate desires, prompting me how fair young Hero is, I liked her ere I went to wars. DON wilt be like a lover presently tire the hearer with a book of words. thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it, I will break with her and with her father, thou shalt have her. Was't not to this end thou began'st to twist so fine a story? sweetly you do minister to love, know love's grief by his complexion! lest my liking might too sudden seem, would have salved it with a longer treatise. DON need the bridge much broader than the flood? fairest grant is the necessity. what will serve is fit: 'tis once, thou lovest, I will fit thee with the remedy. know we shall have revelling to-night: will assume thy part in some disguise tell fair Hero I am Claudio, in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart take her hearing prisoner with the force strong encounter of my amorous tale: after to her father will I break; the conclusion is, she shall be thine. practise let us put it presently. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT I SCENE room in LEONATO's house. LEONATO and ANTONIO, meeting] now, brother! Where is my cousin, your son? he provided this music? is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell strange news that you yet dreamt not of. they good? the event stamps them: but they have a good they show well outward. The prince and Count walking in a thick-pleached alley in mine were thus much overheard by a man of mine: prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my your daughter and meant to acknowledge it night in a dance: and if he found her he meant to take the present time by the and instantly break with you of it. the fellow any wit that told you this? good sharp fellow: I will send for him; and him yourself. no; we will hold it as a dream till it appear but I will acquaint my daughter withal, she may be the better prepared for an answer, peradventure this be true. Go you and tell her of it. Attendants] you know what you have to do. O, I cry you friend; go you with me, and I will use your Good cousin, have a care this busy time. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT I SCENE same. DON JOHN and CONRADE] the good-year, my lord! why are you thus out measure sad? DON is no measure in the occasion that breeds; the sadness is without limit. should hear reason. DON when I have heard it, what blessing brings it? not a present remedy, at least a patient DON wonder that thou, being, as thou sayest thou art, under Saturn, goest about to apply a moral to a mortifying mischief. I cannot hide I am: I must be sad when I have cause and smile no man's jests, eat when I have stomach and wait no man's leisure, sleep when I am drowsy and on no man's business, laugh when I am merry and no man in his humour. but you must not make the full show of this you may do it without controlment. You have of stood out against your brother, and he hath you newly into his grace; where it is you should take true root but by the weather that you make yourself: it is needful you frame the season for your own harvest. DON had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in grace, and it better fits my blood to be of all than to fashion a carriage to rob from any: in this, though I cannot be said to a flattering honest man, it must not be denied I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with muzzle and enfranchised with a clog; therefore I decreed not to sing in my cage. If I had my I would bite; if I had my liberty, I would do liking: in the meantime let me be that I am and not to alter me. you make no use of your discontent? DON make all use of it, for I use it only. comes here? BORACHIO] news, Borachio? came yonder from a great supper: the prince your is royally entertained by Leonato: and I give you intelligence of an intended marriage. DON it serve for any model to build mischief on? is he for a fool that betroths himself to it is your brother's right hand. DON the most exquisite Claudio? he. DON proper squire! And who, and who? which way looks on Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato. DON very forward March-chick! How came you to this? entertained for a perfumer, as I was smoking a room, comes me the prince and Claudio, hand hand in sad conference: I whipt me behind the and there heard it agreed upon that the should woo Hero for himself, and having her, give her to Count Claudio. DON come, let us thither: this may prove food to displeasure. That young start-up hath all the of my overthrow: if I can cross him any way, I myself every way. You are both sure, and will assist me? the death, my lord. DON us to the great supper: their cheer is the that I am subdued. Would the cook were of mind! Shall we go prove what's to be done? wait upon your lordship. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT II SCENE hall in LEONATO'S house. LEONATO, ANTONIO, HERO, BEATRICE, and others] not Count John here at supper? saw him not. tartly that gentleman looks! I never can see but I am heart-burned an hour after. is of a very melancholy disposition. were an excellent man that were made just in the between him and Benedick: the one is too an image and says nothing, and the other too my lady's eldest son, evermore tattling. half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's and half Count John's melancholy in Signior face,-- a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money in his purse, such a man would win any woman the world, if a' could get her good-will. my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue. faith, she's too curst. curst is more than curst: I shall lessen God's that way; for it is said, 'God sends a curst short horns;' but to a cow too curst he sends none. by being too curst, God will send you no horns. if he send me no husband; for the which I am at him upon my knees every morning and Lord, I could not endure a husband with a on his face: I had rather lie in the woollen. may light on a husband that hath no beard. should I do with him? dress him in my apparel make him my waiting-gentlewoman? He that hath a is more than a youth, and he that hath no is less than a man: and he that is more than youth is not for me, and he that is less than a I am not for him: therefore, I will even take in earnest of the bear-ward, and lead his into hell. then, go you into hell? but to the gate; and there will the devil meet like an old cuckold, with horns on his head, and 'Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to here's no place for you maids:' so deliver up my apes, and away to Saint Peter for the he shows me where the bachelors sit, and live we as merry as the day is long. HERO] Well, niece, I trust you will be ruled your father. faith; it is my cousin's duty to make curtsy say 'Father, as it please you.' But yet for all cousin, let him be a handsome fellow, or else another curtsy and say 'Father, as it please niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband. till God make men of some other metal than Would it not grieve a woman to be with a pierce of valiant dust? to make account of her life to a clod of wayward marl? uncle, I'll none: Adam's sons are my brethren; truly, I hold it a sin to match in my kindred. remember what I told you: if the prince solicit you in that kind, you know your answer. fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be wooed in good time: if the prince be too tell him there is measure in every thing so dance out the answer. For, hear me, Hero: wedding, and repenting, is as a Scotch jig, measure, and a cinque pace: the first suit is hot hasty, like a Scotch jig, and full as the wedding, mannerly-modest, as a full of state and ancientry; and then comes and, with his bad legs, falls into the pace faster and faster, till he sink into his grave. you apprehend passing shrewdly. have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight. revellers are entering, brother: make good room. put on their masks] DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, BALTHASAR, JOHN, BORACHIO, MARGARET, URSULA and others, masked] DON will you walk about with your friend? you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing, am yours for the walk; and especially when I walk away. DON me in your company? may say so, when I please. DON when please you to say so? I like your favour; for God defend the lute be like the case! DON visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove. then, your visor should be thatched. DON low, if you speak love. her aside] I would you did like me. would not I, for your own sake; for I have many is one? say my prayers aloud. love you the better: the hearers may cry, Amen. match me with a good dancer! God keep him out of my sight when the dance is Answer, clerk. more words: the clerk is answered. know you well enough; you are Signior Antonio. a word, I am not. know you by the waggling of your head. tell you true, I counterfeit him. could never do him so ill-well, unless you were very man. Here's his dry hand up and down: you he, you are he. a word, I am not. come, do you think I do not know you by your wit? can virtue hide itself? Go to, you are he: graces will appear, and there's an you not tell me who told you so? you shall pardon me. will you not tell me who you are? now. I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit of the 'Hundred Merry Tales:'--well this was Benedick that said so. he? am sure you know him well enough. I, believe me. he never make you laugh? pray you, what is he? he is the prince's jester: a very dull fool; his gift is in devising impossible slanders: but libertines delight in him; and the is not in his wit, but in his villany; he both pleases men and angers them, and then laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is in fleet: I would he had boarded me. I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say. do: he'll but break a comparison or two on me; peradventure not marked or not laughed at, him into melancholy; and then there's a wing saved, for the fool will eat no that night. must follow the leaders. every good thing. if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at next turning. Then exeunt all except DON JOHN, BORACHIO, CLAUDIO] DON my brother is amorous on Hero and hath her father to break with him about it. ladies follow her and but one visor remains. that is Claudio: I know him by his bearing. DON not you Signior Benedick? know me well; I am he. DON you are very near my brother in his love: is enamoured on Hero; I pray you, dissuade him her: she is no equal for his birth: you may the part of an honest man in it. know you he loves her? DON heard him swear his affection. did I too; and he swore he would marry her to-night. DON let us to the banquet. DON JOHN and BORACHIO] answer I in the name of Benedick, hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio. certain so; the prince wooes for himself. is constant in all other things in the office and affairs of love: all hearts in love use their own tongues; every eye negotiate for itself trust no agent; for beauty is a witch whose charms faith melteth into blood. is an accident of hourly proof, I mistrusted not. Farewell, therefore, Hero! BENEDICK] Claudio? the same. will you go with me? to the next willow, about your own business, What fashion will you wear the garland of? your neck, like an usurer's chain? or under arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You must wear one way, for the prince hath got your Hero. wish him joy of her. that's spoken like an honest drovier: so they bullocks. But did you think the prince would served you thus? pray you, leave me. now you strike like the blind man: 'twas the that stole your meat, and you'll beat the post. it will not be, I'll leave you. poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges. that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not me! The prince's fool! Ha? It may be I go that title because I am merry. Yea, but so I apt to do myself wrong; I am not so reputed: it the base, though bitter, disposition of Beatrice puts the world into her person and so gives me Well, I'll be revenged as I may. DON PEDRO] DON signior, where's the count? did you see him? my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame. found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a I told him, and I think I told him true, your grace had got the good will of this young and I offered him my company to a willow-tree, to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or bind him up a rod, as being worthy to be whipped. DON be whipped! What's his fault? flat transgression of a schoolboy, who, being with finding a birds' nest, shows it his and he steals it. DON thou make a trust a transgression? The is in the stealer. it had not been amiss the rod had been made, the garland too; for the garland he might have himself, and the rod he might have bestowed on who, as I take it, have stolen his birds' nest. DON will but teach them to sing, and restore them to owner. their singing answer your saying, by my faith, say honestly. DON Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you: the that danced with her told her she is much by you. she misused me past the endurance of a block! oak but with one green leaf on it would have her; my very visor began to assume life and with her. She told me, not thinking I had been that I was the prince's jester, that I was than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest such impossible conveyance upon me that I stood a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting at She speaks poniards, and every word stabs: her breath were as terrible as her terminations, were no living near her; she would infect to north star. I would not marry her, though she endowed with all that Adam bad left him before transgressed: she would have made Hercules have spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make fire too. Come, talk not of her: you shall find the infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to God scholar would conjure her; for certainly, while is here, a man may live as quiet in hell as in a and people sin upon purpose, because they go thither; so, indeed, all disquiet, horror perturbation follows her. DON here she comes. CLAUDIO, BEATRICE, HERO, and LEONATO] your grace command me any service to the end? I will go on the slightest errand now the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on; will fetch you a tooth-picker now from the inch of Asia, bring you the length of John's foot, fetch you a hair off the great beard, do you any embassage to the Pigmies, than hold three words' conference with this You have no employment for me? DON but to desire your good company. God, sir, here's a dish I love not: I cannot my Lady Tongue. DON lady, come; you have lost the heart of Benedick. my lord, he lent it me awhile; and I gave use for it, a double heart for his single one: once before he won it of me with false dice, your grace may well say I have lost it. DON have put him down, lady, you have put him down. I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I prove the mother of fools. I have brought Claudio, whom you sent me to seek. DON how now, count! wherefore are you sad? sad, my lord. DON then? sick? my lord. count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor but civil count, civil as an orange, and of that jealous complexion. DON faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true; I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is Here, Claudio, I have wooed in thy name, and Hero is won: I have broke with her father, his good will obtained: name the day of and God give thee joy! take of me my daughter, and with her my his grace hath made the match, and an say Amen to it. count, 'tis your cue. is the perfectest herald of joy: I were little happy, if I could say how much. Lady, as are mine, I am yours: I give away myself for and dote upon the exchange. cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouth a kiss, and let not him speak neither. DON faith, lady, you have a merry heart. my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on windy side of care. My cousin tells him in his that he is in her heart. so she doth, cousin. Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the but I, and I am sunburnt; I may sit in a and cry heigh-ho for a husband! DON Beatrice, I will get you one. would rather have one of your father's getting. your grace ne'er a brother like you? Your got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them. DON you have me, lady? my lord, unless I might have another for your grace is too costly to wear day. But, I beseech your grace, pardon me: I born to speak all mirth and no matter. DON silence most offends me, and to be merry best you; for, out of question, you were born in merry hour. sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there a star danced, and under that was I born. God give you joy! will you look to those things I told you of? cry you mercy, uncle. By your grace's pardon. DON my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady. little of the melancholy element in her, my she is never sad but when she sleeps, and ever sad then; for I have heard my daughter say, hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked with laughing. DON cannot endure to hear tell of a husband. by no means: she mocks all her wooers out of suit. DON were an excellent wife for Benedict. Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married, would talk themselves mad. DON Claudio, when mean you to go to church? my lord: time goes on crutches till love all his rites. till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just and a time too brief, too, to have all answer my mind. DON you shake the head at so long a breathing: I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go by us. I will in the interim undertake one of labours; which is, to bring Signior and the Lady Beatrice into a mountain of the one with the other. I would fain have a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it, if three will but minister such assistance as I give you direction. lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten watchings. I, my lord. DON you too, gentle Hero? will do any modest office, my lord, to help my to a good husband. DON Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that know. Thus far can I praise him; he is of a noble of approved valour and confirmed honesty. I teach you how to humour your cousin, that she fall in love with Benedick; and I, with your helps, will so practise on Benedick that, in of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, he fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this, is no longer an archer: his glory shall be for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me, I will tell you my drift. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT II SCENE same. DON JOHN and BORACHIO] DON is so; the Count Claudio shall marry the of Leonato. my lord; but I can cross it. DON bar, any cross, any impediment will be to me: I am sick in displeasure to him, whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges with mine. How canst thou cross this marriage? honestly, my lord; but so covertly that no shall appear in me. DON me briefly how. think I told your lordship a year since, how much am in the favour of Margaret, the waiting to Hero. DON remember. can, at any unseasonable instant of the night, her to look out at her lady's chamber window. DON life is in that, to be the death of this marriage? poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to prince your brother; spare not to tell him that hath wronged his honour in marrying the renowned estimation do you mightily hold a contaminated stale, such a one as Hero. DON proof shall I make of that? enough to misuse the prince, to vex Claudio, undo Hero and kill Leonato. Look you for any issue? DON to despite them, I will endeavour any thing. then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and Count Claudio alone: tell them that you know Hero loves me; intend a kind of zeal both to the and Claudio, as,--in love of your brother's who hath made this match, and his friend's who is thus like to be cozened with the of a maid,--that you have discovered They will scarcely believe this without trial: them instances; which shall bear no less than to see me at her chamber-window, me call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me and bring them to see this the very night the intended wedding,--for in the meantime I so fashion the matter that Hero shall be there shall appear such seeming truth Hero's disloyalty that jealousy shall be called and all the preparation overthrown. DON this to what adverse issue it can, I will put in practise. Be cunning in the working this, and fee is a thousand ducats. you constant in the accusation, and my cunning not shame me. DON will presently go learn their day of marriage. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT II SCENE orchard. BENEDICK] Boy] my chamber-window lies a book: bring it hither me in the orchard. am here already, sir. know that; but I would have thee hence, and here again. Boy] do much wonder that one man, seeing how much man is a fool when he dedicates his to love, will, after he hath laughed at shallow follies in others, become the argument his own scorn by failing in love: and such a man Claudio. I have known when there was no music him but the drum and the fife; and now had he hear the tabour and the pipe: I have known he would have walked ten mile a-foot to see a armour; and now will he lie ten nights awake, the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to plain and to the purpose, like an honest man a soldier; and now is he turned orthography; his are a very fantastical banquet, just so many dishes. May I be so converted and see with eyes? I cannot tell; I think not: I will not sworn, but love may transform me to an oyster; but take my oath on it, till he have made an oyster me, he shall never make me such a fool. One woman fair, yet I am well; another is wise, yet I am another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all be in one woman, one woman shall not come in grace. Rich she shall be, that's certain; wise, I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never cheapen her; or I'll never look on her; mild, or come not me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good an excellent musician, and her hair shall of what colour it please God. Ha! the prince and Love! I will hide me in the arbour. DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO] DON shall we hear this music? my good lord. How still the evening is, hush'd on purpose to grace harmony! DON you where Benedick hath hid himself? very well, my lord: the music ended, fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth. BALTHASAR with Music] DON Balthasar, we'll hear that song again. good my lord, tax not so bad a voice slander music any more than once. DON is the witness still of excellency put a strange face on his own perfection. pray thee, sing, and let me woo no more. you talk of wooing, I will sing; many a wooer doth commence his suit her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes, will he swear he loves. DON pray thee, come; if thou wilt hold longer argument, it in notes. Note this before my notes; not a note of mine that's worth the noting. DON these are very crotchets that he speaks; notes, forsooth, and nothing. divine air! now is his soul ravished! Is it strange that sheeps' guts should hale souls out men's bodies? Well, a horn for my money, when done. Song] Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more, were deceivers ever, foot in sea and one on shore, one thing constant never: sigh not so, but let them go, be you blithe and bonny, all your sounds of woe Hey nonny, nonny. no more ditties, sing no moe, dumps so dull and heavy; fraud of men was ever so, summer first was leafy: sigh not so, &c. DON my troth, a good song. an ill singer, my lord. DON no, no, faith; thou singest well enough for a shift. he had been a dog that should have howled thus, would have hanged him: and I pray God his bad bode no mischief. I had as lief have heard the come what plague could have come after DON marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee, us some excellent music; for to-morrow night we have it at the Lady Hero's chamber-window. best I can, my lord. DON so: farewell. BALTHASAR] hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of that your niece Beatrice was in love with Benedick? ay: stalk on. stalk on; the fowl sits. I did think that lady would have loved any man. nor I neither; but most wonderful that she so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor. possible? Sits the wind in that corner? my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think it but that she loves him with an enraged it is past the infinite of thought. DON be she doth but counterfeit. like enough. God, counterfeit! There was never counterfeit of came so near the life of passion as she it. DON what effects of passion shows she? the hook well; this fish will bite. effects, my lord? She will sit you, you heard daughter tell you how. did, indeed. DON how, pray you? You amaze me: I would have I her spirit had been invincible against all of affection. would have sworn it had, my lord; especially Benedick. should think this a gull, but that the fellow speaks it: knavery cannot, hide himself in such reverence. hath ta'en the infection: hold it up. DON she made her affection known to Benedick? and swears she never will: that's her torment. true, indeed; so your daughter says: 'Shall says she, 'that have so oft encountered him scorn, write to him that I love him?' says she now when she is beginning to write to for she'll be up twenty times a night, and will she sit in her smock till she have writ a of paper: my daughter tells us all. you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a jest your daughter told us of. when she had writ it and was reading it over, she Benedick and Beatrice between the sheet? she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence; at herself, that she should be so immodest write to one that she knew would flout her; 'I him,' says she, 'by my own spirit; for I flout him, if he writ to me; yea, though I him, I should.' down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, her heart, tears her hair, prays, curses; 'O Benedick! God give me patience!' doth indeed; my daughter says so: and the hath so much overborne her that my daughter sometime afeared she will do a desperate outrage herself: it is very true. DON were good that Benedick knew of it by some if she will not discover it. what end? He would make but a sport of it and the poor lady worse. DON he should, it were an alms to hang him. She's an sweet lady; and, out of all suspicion, is virtuous. she is exceeding wise. DON every thing but in loving Benedick. my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender body, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath victory. I am sorry for her, as I have just being her uncle and her guardian. DON would she had bestowed this dotage on me: I would daffed all other respects and made her half I pray you, tell Benedick of it, and hear a' will say. it good, think you? thinks surely she will die; for she says she die, if he love her not, and she will die, ere make her love known, and she will die, if he woo rather than she will bate one breath of her crossness. DON doth well: if she should make tender of her 'tis very possible he'll scorn it; for the as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit. is a very proper man. DON hath indeed a good outward happiness. God! and, in my mind, very wise. DON doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit. I take him to be valiant. DON Hector, I assure you: and in the managing of you may say he is wise; for either he them with great discretion, or undertakes with a most Christian-like fear. he do fear God, a' must necessarily keep peace: he break the peace, he ought to enter into a with fear and trembling. DON so will he do; for the man doth fear God, it seems not in him by some large jests will make. Well I am sorry for your niece. Shall go seek Benedick, and tell him of her love? tell him, my lord: let her wear it out with counsel. that's impossible: she may wear her heart out first. DON we will hear further of it by your daughter: it cool the while. I love Benedick well; and I wish he would modestly examine himself, to see much he is unworthy so good a lady. lord, will you walk? dinner is ready. he do not dote on her upon this, I will never my expectation. DON there be the same net spread for her; and that your daughter and her gentlewomen carry. The will be, when they hold one an opinion of dotage, and no such matter: that's the that I would see, which will be merely a Let us send her to call him in to dinner. DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO] forward] This can be no trick: the was sadly borne. They have the truth of from Hero. They seem to pity the lady: it her affections have their full bent. Love me! it must be requited. I hear how I am censured: say I will bear myself proudly, if I perceive love come from her; they say too that she will die than give any sign of affection. I did think to marry: I must not seem proud: happy they that hear their detractions and can put to mending. They say the lady is fair; 'tis a I can bear them witness; and virtuous; 'tis I cannot reprove it; and wise, but for loving by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor great argument of her folly, for I will be in love with her. I may chance have some quirks and remnants of wit broken on me, I have railed so long against marriage: but not the appetite alter? a man loves the meat his youth that he cannot endure in his age. quips and sentences and these paper bullets of brain awe a man from the career of his humour? the world must be peopled. When I said I would a bachelor, I did not think I should live till I married. Here comes Beatrice. By this day! a fair lady: I do spy some marks of love in BEATRICE] my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner. Beatrice, I thank you for your pains. took no more pains for those thanks than you take to thank me: if it had been painful, I would have come. take pleasure then in the message? just so much as you may take upon a knife's and choke a daw withal. You have no stomach, fare you well. 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in dinner;' there's a double meaning in that 'I took more pains for those thanks than you took pains thank me.' that's as much as to say, Any pains I take for you is as easy as thanks. If I do take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not her, I am a Jew. I will go get her picture. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT III SCENE garden. HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA] Margaret, run thee to the parlor; shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice with the prince and Claudio: her ear and tell her, I and Ursula in the orchard and our whole discourse all of her; say that thou overheard'st us; bid her steal into the pleached bower, honeysuckles, ripen'd by the sun, the sun to enter, like favourites, proud by princes, that advance their pride that power that bred it: there will she hide her, listen our purpose. This is thy office; thee well in it and leave us alone. make her come, I warrant you, presently. Ursula, when Beatrice doth come, we do trace this alley up and down, talk must only be of Benedick. I do name him, let it be thy part praise him more than ever man did merit: talk to thee must be how Benedick sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter little Cupid's crafty arrow made, only wounds by hearsay. BEATRICE, behind] Now begin; look where Beatrice, like a lapwing, runs by the ground, to hear our conference. pleasant'st angling is to see the fish with her golden oars the silver stream, greedily devour the treacherous bait: angle we for Beatrice; who even now couched in the woodbine coverture. you not my part of the dialogue. go we near her, that her ear lose nothing the false sweet bait that we lay for it. the bower] truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful; know her spirits are as coy and wild haggerds of the rock. are you sure Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely? says the prince and my new-trothed lord. did they bid you tell her of it, madam? did entreat me to acquaint her of it; I persuaded them, if they loved Benedick, wish him wrestle with affection, never to let Beatrice know of it. did you so? Doth not the gentleman as full as fortunate a bed ever Beatrice shall couch upon? god of love! I know he doth deserve much as may be yielded to a man: Nature never framed a woman's heart prouder stuff than that of Beatrice; and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes, what they look on, and her wit itself so highly that to her matter else seems weak: she cannot love, take no shape nor project of affection, is so self-endeared. I think so; therefore certainly it were not good knew his love, lest she make sport at it. you speak truth. I never yet saw man, wise, how noble, young, how rarely featured, she would spell him backward: if fair-faced, would swear the gentleman should be her sister; black, why, Nature, drawing of an antique, a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed; low, an agate very vilely cut; speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds; silent, why, a block moved with none. turns she every man the wrong side out never gives to truth and virtue that simpleness and merit purchaseth. sure, such carping is not commendable. not to be so odd and from all fashions Beatrice is, cannot be commendable: who dare tell her so? If I should speak, would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me of myself, press me to death with wit. let Benedick, like cover'd fire, away in sighs, waste inwardly: were a better death than die with mocks, is as bad as die with tickling. tell her of it: hear what she will say. rather I will go to Benedick counsel him to fight against his passion. truly, I'll devise some honest slanders stain my cousin with: one doth not know much an ill word may empoison liking. do not do your cousin such a wrong. cannot be so much without true judgment-- so swift and excellent a wit she is prized to have--as to refuse rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick. is the only man of Italy. excepted my dear Claudio. pray you, be not angry with me, madam, my fancy: Signior Benedick, shape, for bearing, argument and valour, foremost in report through Italy. he hath an excellent good name. excellence did earn it, ere he had it. are you married, madam? every day, to-morrow. Come, go in: show thee some attires, and have thy counsel is the best to furnish me to-morrow. limed, I warrant you: we have caught her, madam. it proves so, then loving goes by haps: Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps. HERO and URSULA] forward] fire is in mine ears? Can this be true? I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much? farewell! and maiden pride, adieu! glory lives behind the back of such. Benedick, love on; I will requite thee, my wild heart to thy loving hand: thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee bind our loves up in a holy band; others say thou dost deserve, and I it better than reportingly. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT III SCENE room in LEONATO'S house DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, and LEONATO] DON do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and go I toward Arragon. bring you thither, my lord, if you'll me. DON that would be as great a soil in the new gloss your marriage as to show a child his new coat forbid him to wear it. I will only be bold Benedick for his company; for, from the crown his head to the sole of his foot, he is all he hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's and the little hangman dare not shoot at he hath a heart as sound as a bell and his is the clapper, for what his heart thinks his speaks. I am not as I have been. say you are sadder. hope he be in love. DON him, truant! there's no true drop of blood in to be truly touched with love: if he be sad, wants money. have the toothache. DON it. it! must hang it first, and draw it afterwards. DON sigh for the toothache? is but a humour or a worm. every one can master a grief but he that has say I, he is in love. DON is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be fancy that he hath to strange disguises; as, to be Dutchman today, a Frenchman to-morrow, or in the of two countries at once, as, a German from waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no for fancy, as you would have it appear he is. he be not in love with some woman, there is no old signs: a' brushes his hat o' what should that bode? DON any man seen him at the barber's? but the barber's man hath been seen with him, the old ornament of his cheek hath already tennis-balls. he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard. DON a' rubs himself with civet: can you smell him by that? as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love. DON greatest note of it is his melancholy. when was he wont to wash his face? DON or to paint himself? for the which, I hear they say of him. but his jesting spirit; which is now crept into lute-string and now governed by stops. DON that tells a heavy tale for him: conclude, he is in love. but I know who loves him. DON would I know too: I warrant, one that knows him not. and his ill conditions; and, in despite of dies for him. DON shall be buried with her face upwards. is this no charm for the toothache. Old walk aside with me: I have studied eight nine wise words to speak to you, which these must not hear. BENEDICK and LEONATO] DON my life, to break with him about Beatrice. even so. Hero and Margaret have by this their parts with Beatrice; and then the two will not bite one another when they meet. DON JOHN] DON lord and brother, God save you! DON den, brother. DON your leisure served, I would speak with you. DON private? DON it please you: yet Count Claudio may hear; for I would speak of concerns him. DON the matter? DON CLAUDIO] Means your lordship to be married DON know he does. DON know not that, when he knows what I know. there be any impediment, I pray you discover it. DON may think I love you not: let that appear and aim better at me by that I now will For my brother, I think he holds you and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect ensuing marriage;--surely suit ill spent and ill bestowed. DON what's the matter? DON came hither to tell you; and, circumstances for she has been too long a talking of, lady is disloyal. Hero? DON she; Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero: DON word is too good to paint out her wickedness; I say she were worse: think you of a worse and I will fit her to it. Wonder not till warrant: go but with me to-night, you shall her chamber-window entered, even the night her wedding-day: if you love her then, wed her; but it would better fit your honour change your mind. this be so? DON will not think it. DON you dare not trust that you see, confess not you know: if you will follow me, I will show enough; and when you have seen more and heard proceed accordingly. I see any thing to-night why I should not marry to-morrow in the congregation, where I should there will I shame her. DON as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join thee to disgrace her. DON will disparage her no farther till you are my bear it coldly but till midnight, and the issue show itself. DON day untowardly turned! mischief strangely thwarting! DON plague right well prevented! so will you say when have seen the sequel. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT III SCENE street. DOGBERRY and VERGES with the Watch] you good men and true? or else it were pity but they should suffer body and soul. that were a punishment too good for them, if should have any allegiance in them, being for the prince's watch. give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry. who think you the most desertless man to be First Otecake, sir, or George Seacole; for they can and read. hither, neighbour Seacole. God hath blessed with a good name: to be a well-favoured man is gift of fortune; but to write and read comes by nature. Second which, master constable,-- have: I knew it would be your answer. Well, your favour, sir, why, give God thanks, and make boast of it; and for your writing and reading, that appear when there is no need of such You are thought here to be the most and fit man for the constable of the therefore bear you the lantern. This is your you shall comprehend all vagrom men; you are bid any man stand, in the prince's name. Second if a' will not stand? then, take no note of him, but let him go; and call the rest of the watch together and God you are rid of a knave. he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none the prince's subjects. and they are to meddle with none but the subjects. You shall also make no noise in streets; for, for the watch to babble and to is most tolerable and not to be endured. will rather sleep than talk: we know what to a watch. you speak like an ancient and most quiet for I cannot see how sleeping should only, have a care that your bills be not Well, you are to call at all the and bid those that are drunk get them to bed. if they will not? then, let them alone till they are sober: if make you not then the better answer, you may they are not the men you took them for. sir. you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue your office, to be no true man; and, for such of men, the less you meddle or make with them, the more is for your honesty. we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay on him? by your office, you may; but I think they touch pitch will be defiled: the most peaceable for you, if you do take a thief, is to let him himself what he is and steal out of your company. have been always called a merciful man, partner. I would not hang a dog by my will, much more man who hath any honesty in him. you hear a child cry in the night, you must call the nurse and bid her still it. if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us? then, depart in peace, and let the child wake with crying; for the ewe that will not hear her when it baes will never answer a calf when he bleats. very true. is the end of the charge:--you, constable, are present the prince's own person: if you meet the in the night, you may stay him. by'r our lady, that I think a' cannot. shillings to one on't, with any man that knows statutes, he may stay him: marry, not without prince be willing; for, indeed, the watch ought offend no man; and it is an offence to stay a against his will. lady, I think it be so. ha, ha! Well, masters, good night: an there be matter of weight chances, call up me: keep your counsels and your own; and good night. neighbour. masters, we hear our charge: let us go sit here the church-bench till two, and then all to bed. word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being to-morrow, there is a great coil to-night. be vigitant, I beseech you. DOGBERRY and VERGES] BORACHIO and CONRADE] Conrade! Peace! stir not. I say! man; I am at thy elbow. and my elbow itched; I thought there would a follow. will owe thee an answer for that: and now forward thy tale. thee close, then, under this pent-house, for drizzles rain; and I will, like a true drunkard, all to thee. Some treason, masters: yet stand close. know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats. it possible that any villany should be so dear? shouldst rather ask if it were possible any should be so rich; for when rich villains need of poor ones, poor ones may make what they will. wonder at it. shows thou art unconfirmed. Thou knowest that fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is to a man. it is apparel. mean, the fashion. the fashion is the fashion. I may as well say the fool's the fool. But thou not what a deformed thief this fashion I know that Deformed; a' has been a vile this seven year; a' goes up and down like a I remember his name. thou not hear somebody? 'twas the vane on the house. thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this is? how giddily a' turns about all the hot between fourteen and five-and-thirty? fashioning them like Pharaoh's soldiers the reeky painting, sometime like god Bel's in the old church-window, sometime like the Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry, his codpiece seems as massy as his club? this I see; and I see that the fashion wears more apparel than the man. But art not thou giddy with the fashion too, that thou hast out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion? so, neither: but know that I have to-night Margaret, the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the of Hero: she leans me out at her mistress' bids me a thousand times good tell this tale vilely:--I should first thee how the prince, Claudio and my master, and placed and possessed by my master Don saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter. thought they Margaret was Hero? of them did, the prince and Claudio; but the my master knew she was Margaret; and partly his oaths, which first possessed them, partly by dark night, which did deceive them, but chiefly my villany, which did confirm any slander that John had made, away went Claudio enraged; swore would meet her, as he was appointed, next morning the temple, and there, before the whole shame her with what he saw o'er night send her home again without a husband. First charge you, in the prince's name, stand! Second up the right master constable. We have here the most dangerous piece of lechery that was known in the commonwealth. First one Deformed is one of them: I know him; a' a lock. masters,-- Second be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you. First speak: we charge you let us obey you to go with us. are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken of these men's bills. commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we'll obey you. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT III SCENE apartment. HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA] Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice, and desire to rise. will, lady. bid her come hither. I think your other rabato were better. pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this. my troth, 's not so good; and I warrant your will say so. cousin's a fool, and thou art another: I'll wear but this. like the new tire within excellently, if the hair a thought browner; and your gown's a most rare i' faith. I saw the Duchess of Milan's that they praise so. that exceeds, they say. my troth, 's but a night-gown in respect of cloth o' gold, and cuts, and laced with set with pearls, down sleeves, side sleeves, skirts, round underborne with a bluish tinsel: for a fine, quaint, graceful and excellent yours is worth ten on 't. give me joy to wear it! for my heart is heavy. be heavier soon by the weight of a man. upon thee! art not ashamed? what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord without marriage? I think you would have say, 'saving your reverence, a husband:' and bad do not wrest true speaking, I'll offend is there any harm in 'the heavier for a None, I think, and it be the right husband the right wife; otherwise 'tis light, and not ask my Lady Beatrice else; here she comes. BEATRICE] morrow, coz. morrow, sweet Hero. how now? do you speak in the sick tune? am out of all other tune, methinks. into 'Light o' love;' that goes without a do you sing it, and I'll dance it. light o' love, with your heels! then, if your have stables enough, you'll see he shall no barns. illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels. almost five o'clock, cousin; tis time you were By my troth, I am exceeding ill: heigh-ho! a hawk, a horse, or a husband? the letter that begins them all, H. and you be not turned Turk, there's no more by the star. means the fool, trow? I; but God send every one their heart's desire! gloves the count sent me; they are an perfume. am stuffed, cousin; I cannot smell. maid, and stuffed! there's goodly catching of cold. God help me! God help me! how long have you apprehension? since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely? is not seen enough, you should wear it in your By my troth, I am sick. you some of this distilled Carduus Benedictus, lay it to your heart: it is the only thing for a qualm. thou prickest her with a thistle. why Benedictus? you have some moral in Benedictus. no, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I plain holy-thistle. You may think perchance I think you are in love: nay, by'r lady, I am such a fool to think what I list, nor I list to think what I can, nor indeed I cannot think, I would think my heart out of thinking, that you in love or that you will be in love or that you be in love. Yet Benedick was such another, and is he become a man: he swore he would never and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eats meat without grudging: and how you may be I know not, but methinks you look with eyes as other women do. pace is this that thy tongue keeps? a false gallop. URSULA] withdraw: the prince, the count, Signior Don John, and all the gallants of the are come to fetch you to church. to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT III SCENE room in LEONATO'S house. LEONATO, with DOGBERRY and VERGES] would you with me, honest neighbour? sir, I would have some confidence with you decerns you nearly. I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me. this it is, sir. in truth it is, sir. is it, my good friends? Verges, sir, speaks a little off the an old man, sir, and his wits are not so as, God help, I would desire they were; but, faith, honest as the skin between his brows. I thank God I am as honest as any man living is an old man and no honester than I. are odorous: palabras, neighbour Verges. you are tedious. pleases your worship to say so, but we are the duke's officers; but truly, for mine own part, I were as tedious as a king, I could find it in heart to bestow it all of your worship. thy tediousness on me, ah? an 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for hear as good exclamation on your worship as of any in the city; and though I be but a poor man, I glad to hear it. so am I. would fain know what you have to say. sir, our watch to-night, excepting your presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant as any in Messina. good old man, sir; he will be talking: as they when the age is in, the wit is out: God help it is a world to see. Well said, i' faith, Verges: well, God's a good man; an two men of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest i' faith, sir; by my troth he is, as ever bread; but God is to be worshipped; all men not alike; alas, good neighbour! neighbour, he comes too short of you. that God gives. must leave you. word, sir: our watch, sir, have indeed two aspicious persons, and we would them this morning examined before your worship. their examination yourself and bring it me: I now in great haste, as it may appear unto you. shall be suffigance. some wine ere you go: fare you well. a Messenger] lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to husband. wait upon them: I am ready. LEONATO and Messenger] good partner, go, get you to Francis Seacole; him bring his pen and inkhorn to the gaol: we now to examination these men. we must do it wisely. will spare for no wit, I warrant you; here's shall drive some of them to a non-come: only the learned writer to set down our and meet me at the gaol. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT IV SCENE church. DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, LEONATO, FRIAR FRANCIS, BENEDICK, HERO, BEATRICE, and Attendants] Friar Francis, be brief; only to the plain of marriage, and you shall recount their duties afterwards. FRIAR come hither, my lord, to marry this lady. be married to her: friar, you come to marry her. FRIAR you come hither to be married to this count. do. FRIAR either of you know any inward impediment why you not be conjoined, charge you, on your souls, utter it. you any, Hero? my lord. FRIAR you any, count? dare make his answer, none. what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily not knowing what they do! now! interjections? Why, then, some be of as, ah, ha, he! thee by, friar. Father, by your leave: you with free and unconstrained soul me this maid, your daughter? freely, son, as God did give her me. what have I to give you back, whose worth counterpoise this rich and precious gift? DON unless you render her again. prince, you learn me noble thankfulness. Leonato, take her back again: not this rotten orange to your friend; but the sign and semblance of her honour. how like a maid she blushes here! what authority and show of truth cunning sin cover itself withal! not that blood as modest evidence witness simple virtue? Would you not swear, you that see her, that she were a maid, these exterior shows? But she is none: knows the heat of a luxurious bed; blush is guiltiness, not modesty. do you mean, my lord? to be married, to knit my soul to an approved wanton. my lord, if you, in your own proof, vanquish'd the resistance of her youth, made defeat of her virginity,-- know what you would say: if I have known her, will say she did embrace me as a husband, so extenuate the 'forehand sin: Leonato, never tempted her with word too large; as a brother to his sister, show'd sincerity and comely love. seem'd I ever otherwise to you? on thee! Seeming! I will write against it: seem to me as Dian in her orb, chaste as is the bud ere it be blown; you are more intemperate in your blood Venus, or those pamper'd animals rage in savage sensuality. my lord well, that he doth speak so wide? prince, why speak not you? DON should I speak? stand dishonour'd, that have gone about link my dear friend to a common stale. these things spoken, or do I but dream? DON they are spoken, and these things are true. looks not like a nuptial. O God! stand I here? this the prince? is this the prince's brother? this face Hero's? are our eyes our own? this is so: but what of this, my lord? me but move one question to your daughter; by that fatherly and kindly power you have in her, bid her answer truly. charge thee do so, as thou art my child. God defend me! how am I beset! kind of catechising call you this? make you answer truly to your name. it not Hero? Who can blot that name any just reproach? that can Hero; itself can blot out Hero's virtue. man was he talk'd with you yesternight at your window betwixt twelve and one? if you are a maid, answer to this. talk'd with no man at that hour, my lord. DON then are you no maiden. Leonato, am sorry you must hear: upon mine honour, my brother and this grieved count see her, hear her, at that hour last night with a ruffian at her chamber-window hath indeed, most like a liberal villain, the vile encounters they have had thousand times in secret. DON fie! they are not to be named, my lord, to be spoke of; is not chastity enough in language offence to utter them. Thus, pretty lady, am sorry for thy much misgovernment. Hero, what a Hero hadst thou been, half thy outward graces had been placed thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart! fare thee well, most foul, most fair! farewell, pure impiety and impious purity! thee I'll lock up all the gates of love, on my eyelids shall conjecture hang, turn all beauty into thoughts of harm, never shall it more be gracious. no man's dagger here a point for me? swoons] how now, cousin! wherefore sink you down? DON let us go. These things, come thus to light, her spirits up. DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, and CLAUDIO] doth the lady? Dead, I think. Help, uncle! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar! Fate! take not away thy heavy hand. is the fairest cover for her shame may be wish'd for. now, cousin Hero! FRIAR comfort, lady. thou look up? FRIAR wherefore should she not? Why, doth not every earthly thing shame upon her? Could she here deny story that is printed in her blood? not live, Hero; do not ope thine eyes: did I think thou wouldst not quickly die, I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames, would, on the rearward of reproaches, at thy life. Grieved I, I had but one? I for that at frugal nature's frame? one too much by thee! Why had I one? ever wast thou lovely in my eyes? had I not with charitable hand up a beggar's issue at my gates, smirch'd thus and mired with infamy, might have said 'No part of it is mine; shame derives itself from unknown loins'? mine and mine I loved and mine I praised mine that I was proud on, mine so much I myself was to myself not mine, of her,--why, she, O, she is fallen a pit of ink, that the wide sea drops too few to wash her clean again salt too little which may season give her foul-tainted flesh! sir, be patient. my part, I am so attired in wonder, know not what to say. on my soul, my cousin is belied! were you her bedfellow last night? truly not; although, until last night, have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow. confirm'd! O, that is stronger made was before barr'd up with ribs of iron! the two princes lie, and Claudio lie, loved her so, that, speaking of her foulness, it with tears? Hence from her! let her die. FRIAR me a little; for I have only been so long and given way unto course of fortune [ ] noting of the lady I have mark'd thousand blushing apparitions start into her face, a thousand innocent shames angel whiteness beat away those blushes; in her eye there hath appear'd a fire, burn the errors that these princes hold her maiden truth. Call me a fool; not my reading nor my observations, with experimental seal doth warrant tenor of my book; trust not my age, reverence, calling, nor divinity, this sweet lady lie not guiltless here some biting error. it cannot be. seest that all the grace that she hath left that she will not add to her damnation sin of perjury; she not denies it: seek'st thou then to cover with excuse which appears in proper nakedness? FRIAR what man is he you are accused of? know that do accuse me; I know none: I know more of any man alive that which maiden modesty doth warrant, all my sins lack mercy! O my father, you that any man with me conversed hours unmeet, or that I yesternight the change of words with any creature, me, hate me, torture me to death! FRIAR is some strange misprision in the princes. of them have the very bent of honour; if their wisdoms be misled in this, practise of it lives in John the bastard, spirits toil in frame of villanies. know not. If they speak but truth of her, hands shall tear her; if they wrong her honour, proudest of them shall well hear of it. hath not yet so dried this blood of mine, age so eat up my invention, fortune made such havoc of my means, my bad life reft me so much of friends, they shall find, awaked in such a kind, strength of limb and policy of mind, in means and choice of friends, quit me of them throughly. FRIAR awhile, let my counsel sway you in this case. daughter here the princes left for dead: her awhile be secretly kept in, publish it that she is dead indeed; a mourning ostentation on your family's old monument mournful epitaphs and do all rites appertain unto a burial. shall become of this? what will this do? FRIAR this well carried shall on her behalf slander to remorse; that is some good: not for that dream I on this strange course, on this travail look for greater birth. dying, as it must so be maintain'd, the instant that she was accused, be lamented, pitied and excused every hearer: for it so falls out what we have we prize not to the worth we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost, then we rack the value, then we find virtue that possession would not show us it was ours. So will it fare with Claudio: he shall hear she died upon his words, idea of her life shall sweetly creep his study of imagination, every lovely organ of her life come apparell'd in more precious habit, moving-delicate and full of life, the eye and prospect of his soul, when she lived indeed; then shall he mourn, ever love had interest in his liver, wish he had not so accused her, though he thought his accusation true. this be so, and doubt not but success fashion the event in better shape I can lay it down in likelihood. if all aim but this be levell'd false, supposition of the lady's death quench the wonder of her infamy: if it sort not well, you may conceal her, best befits her wounded reputation, some reclusive and religious life, of all eyes, tongues, minds and injuries. Leonato, let the friar advise you: though you know my inwardness and love very much unto the prince and Claudio, by mine honour, I will deal in this secretly and justly as your soul with your body. that I flow in grief, smallest twine may lead me. FRIAR well consented: presently away; to strange sores strangely they strain the cure. lady, die to live: this wedding-day is but prolong'd: have patience and endure. all but BENEDICK and BEATRICE] Beatrice, have you wept all this while? and I will weep a while longer. will not desire that. have no reason; I do it freely. I do believe your fair cousin is wronged. how much might the man deserve of me that would right her! there any way to show such friendship? very even way, but no such friend. a man do it? is a man's office, but not yours. do love nothing in the world so well as you: is that strange? strange as the thing I know not. It were as for me to say I loved nothing so well as but believe me not; and yet I lie not; I nothing, nor I deny nothing. I am sorry for my cousin. my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me. not swear, and eat it. will swear by it that you love me; and I will make eat it that says I love not you. you not eat your word? no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest love thee. then, God forgive me! offence, sweet Beatrice? have stayed me in a happy hour: I was about to I loved you. do it with all thy heart. love you with so much of my heart that none is to protest. bid me do any thing for thee. Claudio. not for the wide world. kill me to deny it. Farewell. sweet Beatrice. am gone, though I am here: there is no love in nay, I pray you, let me go. faith, I will go. be friends first. dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy. Claudio thine enemy? he not approved in the height a villain, that slandered, scorned, dishonoured my kinswoman? O I were a man! What, bear her in hand until they to take hands; and then, with public uncovered slander, unmitigated rancour, God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart the market-place. me, Beatrice,-- with a man out at a window! A proper saying! but, Beatrice,-- Hero! She is wronged, she is slandered, she is undone. and counties! Surely, a princely testimony, goodly count, Count Comfect; a sweet gallant, O that I were a man for his sake! or that I any friend would be a man for my sake! But is melted into courtesies, valour into and men are only turned into tongue, and ones too: he is now as valiant as Hercules only tells a lie and swears it. I cannot be a with wishing, therefore I will die a woman with grieving. good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee. it for my love some other way than swearing by it. you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wronged Hero? as sure as I have a thought or a soul. I am engaged; I will challenge him. I will your hand, and so I leave you. By this hand, shall render me a dear account. As you of me, so think of me. Go, comfort your I must say she is dead: and so, farewell. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT IV SCENE prison. DOGBERRY, VERGES, and Sexton, in gowns; and Watch, with CONRADE and BORACHIO] our whole dissembly appeared? a stool and a cushion for the sexton. be the malefactors? that am I and my partner. that's certain; we have the exhibition to examine. which are the offenders that are to be let them come before master constable. marry, let them come before me. What is your friend? write down, Borachio. Yours, sirrah? am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade. down, master gentleman Conrade. Masters, do serve God? Yea, sir, we hope. down, that they hope they serve God: and God first; for God defend but God should go such villains! Masters, it is proved already you are little better than false knaves; and it go near to be thought so shortly. How answer for yourselves? sir, we say we are none. marvellous witty fellow, I assure you: but I go about with him. Come you hither, sirrah; a in your ear: sir, I say to you, it is thought are false knaves. I say to you we are none. stand aside. 'Fore God, they are both in a Have you writ down, that they are none? constable, you go not the way to examine: must call forth the watch that are their accusers. marry, that's the eftest way. Let the watch forth. Masters, I charge you, in the prince's accuse these men. First man said, sir, that Don John, the prince's was a villain. down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat to call a prince's brother villain. constable,-- thee, fellow, peace: I do not like thy look, promise thee. heard you him say else? Second that he had received a thousand ducats of John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully. burglary as ever was committed. by mass, that it is. else, fellow? First that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to Hero before the whole assembly. and not marry her. villain! thou wilt be condemned into everlasting for this. else? is all. this is more, masters, than you can deny. John is this morning secretly stolen away; was in this manner accused, in this very manner and upon the grief of this suddenly died. constable, let these men be bound, and to Leonato's: I will go before and show their examination. let them be opinioned. them be in the hands-- coxcomb! my life, where's the sexton? let him write the prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them. naughty varlet! you are an ass, you are an ass. thou not suspect my place? dost thou not my years? O that he were here to write me an ass! But, masters, remember that I am an though it be not written down, yet forget not I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of as shall be proved upon thee by good witness. am a wise fellow, and, which is more, an officer, which is more, a householder, and, which is as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in and one that knows the law, go to; and a fellow enough, go to; and a fellow that hath losses, and one that hath two gowns and every handsome about him. Bring him away. O that had been writ down an ass! ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT V SCENE LEONATO'S house. LEONATO and ANTONIO] you go on thus, you will kill yourself: 'tis not wisdom thus to second grief yourself. I pray thee, cease thy counsel, falls into mine ears as profitless water in a sieve: give not me counsel; let no comforter delight mine ear such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine. me a father that so loved his child, joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine, bid him speak of patience; his woe the length and breadth of mine let it answer every strain for strain, thus for thus and such a grief for such, every lineament, branch, shape, and form: such a one will smile and stroke his beard, sorrow wag, cry 'hem!' when he should groan, grief with proverbs, make misfortune drunk candle-wasters; bring him yet to me, I of him will gather patience. there is no such man: for, brother, men counsel and speak comfort to that grief they themselves not feel; but, tasting it, counsel turns to passion, which before give preceptial medicine to rage, strong madness in a silken thread, ache with air and agony with words: no; 'tis all men's office to speak patience those that wring under the load of sorrow, no man's virtue nor sufficiency be so moral when he shall endure like himself. Therefore give me no counsel: griefs cry louder than advertisement. do men from children nothing differ. pray thee, peace. I will be flesh and blood; there was never yet philosopher could endure the toothache patiently, they have writ the style of gods made a push at chance and sufferance. bend not all the harm upon yourself; those that do offend you suffer too. thou speak'st reason: nay, I will do so. soul doth tell me Hero is belied; that shall Claudio know; so shall the prince all of them that thus dishonour her. comes the prince and Claudio hastily. DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO] DON den, good den. day to both of you. you. my lords,-- DON have some haste, Leonato. haste, my lord! well, fare you well, my lord: you so hasty now? well, all is one. DON do not quarrel with us, good old man. he could right himself with quarreling, of us would lie low. wrongs him? thou dost wrong me; thou dissembler, thou:-- never lay thy hand upon thy sword; fear thee not. Marry, beshrew my hand, it should give your age such cause of fear: faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword. tush, man; never fleer and jest at me: speak not like a dotard nor a fool, under privilege of age to brag I have done being young, or what would do I not old. Know, Claudio, to thy head, hast so wrong'd mine innocent child and me I am forced to lay my reverence by with grey hairs and bruise of many days, challenge thee to trial of a man. say thou hast belied mine innocent child; slander hath gone through and through her heart, she lies buried with her ancestors; in a tomb where never scandal slept, this of hers, framed by thy villany! villany? Thine, Claudio; thine, I say. DON say not right, old man. lord, my lord, prove it on his body, if he dare, his nice fence and his active practise, May of youth and bloom of lustihood. I will not have to do with you. thou so daff me? Thou hast kill'd my child: thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man. shall kill two of us, and men indeed: that's no matter; let him kill one first; me and wear me; let him answer me. follow me, boy; come, sir boy, come, follow me: boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence; as I am a gentleman, I will. yourself. God knows I loved my niece; she is dead, slander'd to death by villains, dare as well answer a man indeed I dare take a serpent by the tongue: apes, braggarts, Jacks, milksops! Antony,-- you content. What, man! I know them, yea, what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple,-- out-facing, fashion-monging boys, lie and cog and flout, deprave and slander, anticly, show outward hideousness, speak off half a dozen dangerous words, they might hurt their enemies, if they durst; this is all. brother Antony,-- 'tis no matter: not you meddle; let me deal in this. DON both, we will not wake your patience. heart is sorry for your daughter's death: on my honour, she was charged with nothing what was true and very full of proof. lord, my lord,-- DON will not hear you. Come, brother; away! I will be heard. shall, or some of us will smart for it. LEONATO and ANTONIO] DON see; here comes the man we went to seek. BENEDICK] signior, what news? day, my lord. DON signior: you are almost come to part a fray. had like to have had our two noses snapped off two old men without teeth. DON and his brother. What thinkest thou? Had fought, I doubt we should have been too young for them. a false quarrel there is no true valour. I came seek you both. have been up and down to seek thee; for we are melancholy and would fain have it beaten Wilt thou use thy wit? is in my scabbard: shall I draw it? DON thou wear thy wit by thy side? any did so, though very many have been beside wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the draw, to pleasure us. DON I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou or angry? courage, man! What though care killed a cat, hast mettle enough in thee to kill care. I shall meet your wit in the career, and you it against me. I pray you choose another subject. then, give him another staff: this last was cross. DON this light, he changes more and more: I think be angry indeed. he be, he knows how to turn his girdle. I speak a word in your ear? bless me from a challenge! to CLAUDIO] You are a villain; I jest not: will make it good how you dare, with what you and when you dare. Do me right, or I will your cowardice. You have killed a sweet and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me from you. I will meet you, so I may have good cheer. DON a feast, a feast? faith, I thank him; he hath bid me to a calf's and a capon; the which if I do not carve most say my knife's naught. Shall I not find woodcock too? your wit ambles well; it goes easily. DON tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit the day. I said, thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,' she, 'a fine little one.' 'No,' said I, 'a wit:' 'Right,' says she, 'a great gross one.' said I, 'a good wit:' 'Just,' said she, 'it nobody.' 'Nay,' said I, 'the gentleman wise:' 'Certain,' said she, 'a wise gentleman.' said I, 'he hath the tongues:' 'That I said she, 'for he swore a thing to me on night, which he forswore on Tuesday morning; a double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus she, an hour together, transshape thy particular yet at last she concluded with a sigh, thou the properest man in Italy. the which she wept heartily and said she cared DON that she did: but yet, for all that, an if she not hate him deadly, she would love him dearly: old man's daughter told us all. all; and, moreover, God saw him when he was in the garden. DON when shall we set the savage bull's horns on sensible Benedick's head? and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick the man'? you well, boy: you know my mind. I will leave now to your gossip-like humour: you break jests braggarts do their blades, which God be thanked, not. My lord, for your many courtesies I thank I must discontinue your company: your brother bastard is fled from Messina: you have among killed a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord there, he and I shall meet: and, till peace be with him. DON is in earnest. most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for love of Beatrice. DON hath challenged thee. sincerely. DON a pretty thing man is when he goes in his and hose and leaves off his wit! is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a to such a man. DON soft you, let me be: pluck up, my heart, and sad. Did he not say, my brother was fled? DOGBERRY, VERGES, and the Watch, with CONRADE BORACHIO] you, sir: if justice cannot tame you, she ne'er weigh more reasons in her balance: nay, you be a cursing hypocrite once, you must be looked to. DON now? two of my brother's men bound! Borachio after their offence, my lord. DON what offence have these men done? sir, they have committed false report; they have spoken untruths; secondarily, are slanders; sixth and lastly, they have a lady; thirdly, they have verified unjust and, to conclude, they are lying knaves. DON I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I thee what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why are committed; and, to conclude, what you lay their charge. reasoned, and in his own division: and, by troth, there's one meaning well suited. DON have you offended, masters, that you are thus to your answer? this learned constable is cunning to be understood: what's your offence? prince, let me go no farther to mine answer: you hear me, and let this count kill me. I have even your very eyes: what your wisdoms not discover, these shallow fools have brought light: who in the night overheard me confessing this man how Don John your brother incensed me slander the Lady Hero, how you were brought into orchard and saw me court Margaret in Hero's how you disgraced her, when you should her: my villany they have upon record; which had rather seal with my death than repeat over my shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my false accusation; and, briefly, I desire but the reward of a villain. DON not this speech like iron through your blood? have drunk poison whiles he utter'd it. DON did my brother set thee on to this? and paid me richly for the practise of it. DON is composed and framed of treachery: fled he is upon this villany. Hero! now thy image doth appear the rare semblance that I loved it first. bring away the plaintiffs: by this time our hath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter: masters, do not forget to specify, when time place shall serve, that I am an ass. here comes master Signior Leonato, and the too. LEONATO and ANTONIO, with the Sexton] is the villain? let me see his eyes, when I note another man like him, may avoid him: which of these is he? you would know your wronger, look on me. thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd innocent child? even I alone. not so, villain; thou beliest thyself: stand a pair of honourable men; third is fled, that had a hand in it. thank you, princes, for my daughter's death: it with your high and worthy deeds: bravely done, if you bethink you of it. know not how to pray your patience; I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself; me to what penance your invention lay upon my sin: yet sinn'd I not in mistaking. DON By my soul, nor I: yet, to satisfy this good old man, would bend under any heavy weight he'll enjoin me to. cannot bid you bid my daughter live; were impossible: but, I pray you both, the people in Messina here innocent she died; and if your love labour ought in sad invention, her an epitaph upon her tomb sing it to her bones, sing it to-night: morning come you to my house, since you could not be my son-in-law, yet my nephew: my brother hath a daughter, the copy of my child that's dead, she alone is heir to both of us: her the right you should have given her cousin, so dies my revenge. noble sir, over-kindness doth wring tears from me! do embrace your offer; and dispose henceforth of poor Claudio. then I will expect your coming; I take my leave. This naughty man face to face be brought to Margaret, I believe was pack'd in all this wrong, to it by your brother. by my soul, she was not, knew not what she did when she spoke to me, always hath been just and virtuous any thing that I do know by her. sir, which indeed is not under white and this plaintiff here, the offender, did call ass: I beseech you, let it be remembered in his And also, the watch heard them talk of Deformed: they say be wears a key in his ear and lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's the which he hath used so long and never paid now men grow hard-hearted and will lend nothing God's sake: pray you, examine him upon that point. thank thee for thy care and honest pains. worship speaks like a most thankful and youth; and I praise God for you. for thy pains. save the foundation! I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee. leave an arrant knave with your worship; which I your worship to correct yourself, for the of others. God keep your worship! I wish worship well; God restore you to health! I give you leave to depart; and if a merry may be wished, God prohibit it! Come, neighbour. DOGBERRY and VERGES] to-morrow morning, lords, farewell. my lords: we look for you to-morrow. DON will not fail. To-night I'll mourn with Hero. the Watch] Bring you these fellows on. We'll with Margaret, her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow. severally] ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT V SCENE garden. BENEDICK and MARGARET, meeting] thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice. you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty? so high a style, Margaret, that no man living come over it; for, in most comely truth, thou it. have no man come over me! why, shall I always below stairs? wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth; it catches. yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit, hurt not. most manly wit, Margaret; it will not hurt a and so, I pray thee, call Beatrice: I give the bucklers. us the swords; we have bucklers of our own. you use them, Margaret, you must put in the with a vice; and they are dangerous weapons for maids. I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs. therefore will come. MARGARET] god of love, sits above, knows me, and knows me, pitiful I deserve,-- mean in singing; but in loving, Leander the good Troilus the first employer of panders, and whole bookful of these quondam carpet-mangers, names yet run smoothly in the even road of a verse, why, they were never so truly turned and over as my poor self in love. Marry, I show it in rhyme; I have tried: I can find no rhyme to 'lady' but 'baby,' an innocent for 'scorn,' 'horn,' a hard rhyme; for, 'fool,' a babbling rhyme; very ominous no, I was not born under a rhyming planet, I cannot woo in festival terms. BEATRICE] Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I called thee? signior, and depart when you bid me. stay but till then! is spoken; fare you well now: and yet, ere go, let me go with that I came; which is, with what hath passed between you and Claudio. foul words; and thereupon I will kiss thee. words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but breath, and foul breath is noisome; therefore I depart unkissed. hast frighted the word out of his right sense, forcible is thy wit. But I must tell thee Claudio undergoes my challenge; and either must shortly hear from him, or I will subscribe a coward. And, I pray thee now, tell me for of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me? them all together; which maintained so politic state of evil that they will not admit any good to intermingle with them. But for which of my parts did you first suffer love for me? love! a good epithet! I do suffer love for I love thee against my will. spite of your heart, I think; alas, poor heart! you spite it for my sake, I will spite it for for I will never love that which my friend hates. and I are too wise to woo peaceably. appears not in this confession: there's not one man among twenty that will praise himself. old, an old instance, Beatrice, that lived in lime of good neighbours. If a man do not erect this age his own tomb ere he dies, he shall live longer in monument than the bell rings and the weeps. how long is that, think you? why, an hour in clamour and a quarter in therefore is it most expedient for the if Don Worm, his conscience, find no to the contrary, to be the trumpet of his virtues, as I am to myself. So much for myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is and now tell me, how doth your cousin? ill. how do you? ill too. God, love me and mend. There will I leave too, for here comes one in haste. URSULA] you must come to your uncle. Yonder's old at home: it is proved my Lady Hero hath been accused, the prince and Claudio mightily and Don John is the author of all, who is and gone. Will you come presently? you go hear this news, signior? will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be in thy eyes; and moreover I will go with to thy uncle's. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT V SCENE church. DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and three or four tapers] this the monument of Leonato? is, my lord. out of a scroll] to death by slanderous tongues the Hero that here lies: in guerdon of her wrongs, her fame which never dies. the life that died with shame in death with glorious fame. thou there upon the tomb, her when I am dumb. music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn. goddess of the night, that slew thy virgin knight; the which, with songs of woe, about her tomb they go. assist our moan; us to sigh and groan, heavily: yawn and yield your dead, death be uttered, heavily. Now, unto thy bones good night! will I do this rite. DON morrow, masters; put your torches out: wolves have prey'd; and look, the gentle day, the wheels of Phoebus, round about the drowsy east with spots of grey. to you all, and leave us: fare you well. Good morrow, masters: each his several way. DON let us hence, and put on other weeds; then to Leonato's we will go. Hymen now with luckier issue speed's this for whom we render'd up this woe. ADO ABOUT NOTHING ACT V SCENE room in LEONATO'S house. LEONATO, ANTONIO, BENEDICK, BEATRICE, URSULA, FRIAR FRANCIS, and HERO] FRIAR I not tell you she was innocent? are the prince and Claudio, who accused her the error that you heard debated: Margaret was in some fault for this, against her will, as it appears the true course of all the question. I am glad that all things sort so well. so am I, being else by faith enforced call young Claudio to a reckoning for it. daughter, and you gentle-women all, into a chamber by yourselves, when I send for you, come hither mask'd. Ladies] prince and Claudio promised by this hour visit me. You know your office, brother: must be father to your brother's daughter give her to young Claudio. I will do with confirm'd countenance. I must entreat your pains, I think. FRIAR do what, signior? bind me, or undo me; one of them. Leonato, truth it is, good signior, niece regards me with an eye of favour. eye my daughter lent her: 'tis most true. I do with an eye of love requite her. sight whereof I think you had from me, Claudio and the prince: but what's your will? answer, sir, is enigmatical: for my will, my will is your good will stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd the state of honourable marriage: which, good friar, I shall desire your help. heart is with your liking. FRIAR my help. comes the prince and Claudio. DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO, and two or others] DON morrow to this fair assembly. morrow, prince; good morrow, Claudio: here attend you. Are you yet determined to marry with my brother's daughter? hold my mind, were she an Ethiope. her forth, brother; here's the friar ready. ANTONIO] DON morrow, Benedick. Why, what's the matter, you have such a February face, full of frost, of storm and cloudiness? think he thinks upon the savage bull. fear not, man; we'll tip thy horns with gold all Europa shall rejoice at thee, once Europa did at lusty Jove, he would play the noble beast in love. Jove, sir, had an amiable low; some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow, got a calf in that same noble feat like to you, for you have just his bleat. this I owe you: here comes other reckonings. ANTONIO, with the Ladies masked] is the lady I must seize upon? same is she, and I do give you her. then she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face. that you shall not, till you take her hand this friar and swear to marry her. me your hand: before this holy friar, am your husband, if you like of me. when I lived, I was your other wife: when you loved, you were my other husband. Hero! Nothing certainer: Hero died defiled, but I do live, surely as I live, I am a maid. DON former Hero! Hero that is dead! died, my lord, but whiles her slander lived. FRIAR this amazement can I qualify: after that the holy rites are ended, tell you largely of fair Hero's death: let wonder seem familiar, to the chapel let us presently. and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice? I answer to that name. What is your will? not you love me? no; no more than reason. then your uncle and the prince and Claudio been deceived; they swore you did. not you love me? no; no more than reason. then my cousin Margaret and Ursula much deceived; for they did swear you did. swore that you were almost sick for me. swore that you were well-nigh dead for me. no such matter. Then you do not love me? truly, but in friendly recompense. cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman. I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her; here's a paper written in his hand, halting sonnet of his own pure brain, to Beatrice. here's another in my cousin's hand, stolen from her pocket, her affection unto Benedick. miracle! here's our own hands against our hearts. I will have thee; but, by this light, I take for pity. would not deny you; but, by this good day, I yield great persuasion; and partly to save your life, I was told you were in a consumption. I will stop your mouth. her] DON dost thou, Benedick, the married man? tell thee what, prince; a college of cannot flout me out of my humour. Dost think I care for a satire or an epigram? No: a man will be beaten with brains, a' shall wear handsome about him. In brief, since I do to marry, I will think nothing to any that the world can say against it; and never flout at me for what I have said it; for man is a giddy thing, and this is my For thy part, Claudio, I did think to beaten thee, but in that thou art like to be my live unbruised and love my cousin. had well hoped thou wouldst have denied Beatrice, I might have cudgelled thee out of thy single to make thee a double-dealer; which, out of thou wilt be, if my cousin do not look narrowly to thee. come, we are friends: let's have a dance ere are married, that we may lighten our own hearts our wives' heels. have dancing afterward. of my word; therefore play, music. Prince, art sad; get thee a wife, get thee a wife: is no staff more reverend than one tipped with horn. a Messenger] lord, your brother John is ta'en in flight, brought with armed men back to Messina. not on him till to-morrow: devise thee brave punishments for him. up, 