ENTER YOUR NAME:
NUMBER OF THE DAY THAT I WAS BORN:
2
ENTER A NICKNAME:
Goldfish, hollyn 
ENTER ANOTHER NICKNAME:
ENTER MY NICKNAME:
geek, hobbit
Hello Holly,
Sorry for the security measures but I hope you understand. This message should be for you and only you. I also wanted to show you that now I can create software’s…. Well command line based, but we all have to start somewhere.
The message I want is not here yet. I have 2 more questions.
What do I need when I am nervous (Any key word will work just spell it right)?
What color was missing from the <LAST ANSWER>?

Encryption/encoding we used for sensitive information?
Biggest fear after sending “my story” text?
Judge

What song did I sing?
Bonus just because. Who is the artist of <SONG>?

Just saying at this point if I have repeated, added extra, or don’t make sense realize that I did this late at night.
OK. So, I want to keep this short since I don’t have the most amount of time. I am trying to do finals and study for the summer semesters that go by quickly. So I have been thinking. What if we didn’t talk. I know that it would be hard, but thinking about it I don’t know how long I can keep this up. It is harder on me to keep up with the constant pace that you are going
So, this isn’t working. I can’t keep up with you. You have so much going on and was wondering if I am getting in the way. We don’t talk on the phone and apparently people don’t like it in your family when you do. We can text but that is more time consuming now and isn’t the same. I was wondering if you would be ok with not talking until we can see each other again. I don’t want to do it but it is the only solution I can come up with in my busy life right now.
So I don’t feel like this isn’t working. My family doesn’t really like you anymore and my mom doesn’t know about hangout. It is just time though until she figures out and she is going to be pissed. I remember you telling me that your family doesn’t really like you talking to me. I wonder if we could just not talk until the end of summer. I will have no time on my hands during the summer and if we can’t talk on the phone then we will end up not talking at all.
Honestly that is the only solution. If you don’t like it and have a different option please enter it below.
ENTER IN RESPONSE:
Yes, I have sent your email to me through an encrypted line. Don’t worry as all of this is untraceable. Press enter and all evidence that this happened is deleted. It is that easy.
